Here's another kind of view of the previous picture as the scribing.
So here's our battery again.
The internal resistance is given by a lowercase r.
Here's the ideal EMR.
Inside the battery and some resistance that is maybe connected to to form a closed loop circuit.
Imagine here you have a current.
I it remember our expression now for the terminal voltage was V-A mine is VB would be equal to the ideal
minus i r.
Actually if you call this V again just the voltage of the battery if you plug that voltage as a function
of the current look what you get here.
If the current is zero.
Right.
If there is no closed loop you would have a kind of just an open circuit over here you wouldn't have
any current.
So in that case the voltage of the battery is simply equal to the MF of the ideal ium F..
So let's write that down.
So if current equals to zero.
So that's if for example there's a break here or it's not connected to any resistance or you'd have
zero current.
In that case the terminal voltage is simply equal to the ideal M.F. of the battery and that's what you
get over here.
Now as more and more current depending on what you've connected here to form a closed loop the more
current that you get.
What that would cause would be that the terminal voltage here would go down more.
And you could see as a function of I the bigger this current is the more you take away from this ideal.
MF So if you take an example imagine here we have a 12 volt battery ideal battery and imagine the internal
resistance here is 0.5 ohms.
So over here I get if there is no current flowing through it you would measure 12 volts across the terminals
of that battery.
Imagine you connect it to some resistor and then the current is measured and you measure a current equal
to two amps.
So in that case if I go all the way here to two atoms what I would now measure for the voltage across
that the terminals of this battery would be my value over here.
So I get the ideal MF which is 12 minus two multiplied by a 1 1/2 0.5 2 times 1 1/2 gives me one.
So I would actually measure 11 volts.
So you go and you measure the voltage.
In that case you're going to measure 11 volts.
If there's more current You're going to measure a lower voltage for the terminal voltage of that battery
because there ends up being a larger voltage drop across this internal resistance and we'll get more
into this in the next section.